=head1 Zeek utilities

This repository contains a few utility scripts for the
L<Zeek Network Security Monitor|http://www.zeek.org>.

=head2 zeek-influx-stats.pl

This script outputs information about running Zeek processes in influxdb line
format. If the Zeek processes have been started using Zeekctl, it will also add
information like the listening interface and the type of node.

Example output:

	zeek,host=allison,interface='unknown',nodetype='logger-1' pmem=0.0,pcpu=87.4,vsize=3271596,rss=197424,cputimes=153,etimes=175
	zeek,host=allison,interface='unknown',nodetype='manager' pmem=0.0,pcpu=0.5,vsize=686600,rss=89964,cputimes=0,etimes=174
	zeek,host=allison,interface='unknown',nodetype='proxy-1' pmem=0.0,pcpu=0.4,vsize=684792,rss=85476,cputimes=0,etimes=173
	zeek,host=allison,interface='af_packet::em2',nodetype='worker-1-1' pmem=0.0,pcpu=17.3,vsize=875652,rss=278452,cputimes=29,etimes=171
	zeek,host=allison,interface='af_packet::em2',nodetype='worker-1-3' pmem=0.0,pcpu=23.2,vsize=875360,rss=278308,cputimes=39,etimes=171
	zeek,host=allison,interface='af_packet::em2',nodetype='worker-1-11' pmem=0.0,pcpu=16.8,vsize=871848,rss=276724,cputimes=28,etimes=171

You can use software like L<Telegraf|https://www.influxdata.com/time-series-platform/telegraf/>
to submit the output to influxdb. The following configuration file snippet will run collection every 60 seconds:

	[[inputs.exec]]
		commands = ["/home/johanna/do.pl"]
		timeout = "60s"
		data_format = "influx"

=head2 readToPsql.pl

Read Zeek log files into a postgresql database. Tables are
automatically generated according to the type and path
values in the Zeek logs.

Usage:

	readToPsql.pl --db=[dbname] [--port=port] [logfiles]

=head2 readToGpDB.pl

Read Zeek log files into a greenplum database. Tables are
automatically generated according to the type and path
values in the Zeek logs.

Usage:

	readToGpDB.pl --db=[dbname] [--port=port] [logfiles]

=head2 convert-blacklist.pl

Convert the SSL blacklist provided by L<abuse.ch|https://sslbl.abuse.ch/blacklist/>
to a format that is ingestible by the Zeek Intelligence Framework.

Usage:

	convert-blacklist.pl infile > outfile
